---
title: Why do you show emissions only from primary forests for Indonesia and DRC in the pantropical overview?
published: True
tags: [climate]
categories: [faqs]
---

<p>An important caveat regarding the Hansen et al. (2013) tree cover loss dataset is that the definition of gross tree cover loss includes rotational clear-felling of management units within tree plantations and clearing of forest regrowth in shifting cultivation cycles, along with conversion of natural forests. Data shown in the pantropical overview are based on emission estimates from Zarin et al. (in press), which took steps to address this issue using specific modifications of the Hansen et al. (2013) data for three countries that are substantial contributors to total carbon emissions from gross tropical deforestation -- Indonesia, DRC, and Malaysia. For Indonesia, primary forests in 2000 as mapped by Margono et al. and available on GFW closely match a map of forest extent from the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry data for the same year. For DRC, the focus on primary forest only aims to exclude secondary forest clearing associated with stable shifting cultivation cycles, while while still capturing emissions from expansion of shifting cultivation into primary forest areas. For Malaysia, emissions from gross deforestation is approximated by filtering out tree cover loss occurring within plantation areas as mapped by Transparent World and available on GFW. See Zarin et al. for more details. Additional data beyond those shown on the pantropical overview page for these three countries are shown on their country profile pages.</p>